# lantern
_Lensed AgN search in lssT using machinE leaRNing_

Gravitationally lensed quasars are predicted to appear, and be efficiently detected, as extended features in wide field optical imaging survey "difference images" (e.g. [Kochanek et al 2006](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2006ApJ...637L..73K/abstract), [Dux et al 2024](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2024A%26A...682A..47D/abstract)). We are developing just such a search in the Rubin Observatory LSST data, which will include automatically generated Alerts for all difference image analysis sources.    

This python package is work in progress: ultimately the `lantern` repo will include code to carry out the following tasks:
* Characterize (and visualize) the properties of Rubin `diaSources`, either from the Rubin Alert Stream or from injection/reprocessing experiments using the LSST Science Pipelines.
* Filter the Rubin Alert Stream for `diaSources` that are consistent with having been generated by a strongly gravitationally lensed (i.e. multiply-imaged) quasar. This is the _First Cut_ in our search for LSST lensed AGN. We are anticipating using the [ANTARES](https://antares.noirlab.edu/) alert broker for executing the filtering. 
* Cluster (in space and time) `diaSources` (especially those tagged in the First Cut) and classify those clusters as having been generated by a strongly gravitationally lensed (i.e. multiply-imaged) quasar. This is the _Second Pass_ in our search for LSST lensed AGN.
* Visualize lensed AGN candidates and their measured properties, including with the Alert postage stamp images. 

## Contributors
* Phil Marshall, SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory
* Shenming Fu, SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory: fork
* Zach Gillis, Stanford University: fork

## Using this Code
Instructions on getting started (installing and running the `lantern`) will appear here. 

If you make use of this code in your research, please include an acknowledgement and a link to this repository - and do please get in touch via this repo's [issues](https://github.com/drphilmarshall/lantern/issues/new), we welcome new collaborators. 
